---
layout: post
title: The 'BBC Sound of 2019' longlist has been unveiled
description: BBC SOUND OF 2019
categories: articles
---

 

The selection we all wait for on this time of the year is here. The BBC has released the **10 artists to follow on the upcoming 2019**.

## DERMOT KENNEDY 
He believes he’s the example of a quite lucky guitar artist that became popular first through Spotify and its algorithms. He was soon able to finance sold-out concerts in Europe and the US off the revenues before finally signing to Universal Ireland. With no album out yet, **Dermot Kennedy** has already exhibit his clear view on his music and the intensity he experiences it with on stage. 

{% include youtubePlayer.html id='JYGmDy7o2H0' %}

## ELLA MAI 
**Ella Mai** belongs to the notable group of R&B artists that are popping up around the UK, despite she states she wouldn’t have gone this big had she signed in her home country. Established in LA since she was discovered on Instagram back in 2015, she has now released her debut album, named after herself, where she literally defines herself throughout her songs and an album delineated narration.

{% include youtubePlayer.html id='6YNZlXfW6Ho' %} 

## FLOHIO
Once more disrupting stereotypes, **Flohio** breaks in the UK’s grime scene and makes a whole new thing out of it. Trained in the studios of a youth club South in London where she started writing her first tracks, she’s found the fine combination between electronic powerful beats and thrilling fiery lyrics.  She avoids being classified, yet this genre outsider is here to stay. 

{% include youtubePlayer.html id='T6i5zhrt658' %} 

## GRACE CARTER 
Raised by a single mother after her father abandoned them, **Grace Carter** released her frustration and rage through elegant and vulnerable lyrics that have now build up beautiful piano ballads. She easily expresses universal emotions and intends to help her listeners to feel them themselves. R&B influence turned into soulful vocals.

{% include youtubePlayer.html id='1Fxb52dHHgI' %} 

## KING PRINCESS 
She grew up recording vocals at her dad’s engineering studio in New York and rehearsing Grammy-award speeches in front of the mirror. Now in her 20s, she’s happy to become a queer icon young people can identify with. Unafraid of being herself, she chooses her words carefully and shares her political thoughts and personal experiences through atmospheric warm synth melodies. 

{% include youtubePlayer.html id='LNxWTS25Tbk' %}

## MAHALIA 
She signed a major label when she was 13, yet she focused on finishing school and living a ‘normal’ life while developing her own music. Now feeling weird about being called an ‘emergent artist’, **Mahalia** shows she’s confident within the music industry and chooses not to be classified in one genre or another. She mixes her guitar songwriting skills with the hip-hop and R&B she grew up with and proves her efforts paid off. 

{% include youtubePlayer.html id='a7kT52xL-7g' %}

## OCTAVIAN 
Born in France but raised in the UK, **Octavian** went through hard times with his living and family situation as a kid. Even after sleeping in couches and metro stations, his perseverance led him to mature thoughtful sounds where he combines grime and rap beats with house or dancehall elements. He doesn’t follow any rules but his future will certainly do/and his future won’t either. ???? 

{% include youtubePlayer.html id='dz7eyvAMOpA' %}

## ROSALÍA
We already featured this outstanding Spanish artist in an article about the Music Moves Europe Talent Awards. She has so far received quite a few compliments from all around the world in only two months since the release of her album *El mal querer* (2018), in which flamenco roots and contemporary urban sounds build up a whole unique imaginary inspired by an 11th century novel.

{% include youtubePlayer.html id='p_4coiRG_BI' %}

## SEA GIRLS 
The quartet met while they were part of rival bands, and even after **Sea Girls** became a thing they all played a different instrument than the one they currently do. They’re the usual British indie-rock band in this BBC selection, and are ready to keep growing their fan base and playing their guitar sounds at their festival gigs. 

{% include youtubePlayer.html id='lFJ-WIxTBJ8' %} 

## SLOWTHAI 
He got his *‘Slow Ty’* nickname as he used to mumble as a kid. In his 20s now, he spits wise words and complains about social inequality, laughs with dark humor or opposes masculinity stereotypes. As Flohio or Octavian before, he doesn’t want to get classified, and so he combines notable deep lyrics with a theatrical punk-*ish* attitude by which he just laughs at the world. 

{% include youtubePlayer.html id='-uW5NuD8O6Q' %}
